Add workers to work pool concept docs (#9058)
PrefectHQ/prefect: docs/concepts/work-pools.md

    - concurrency limits
---

# Work Pools, Workers & Agents

Work pools and the services that poll them, workers and agents, bridge the Prefect _orchestration environment_ with your _execution environment_. When a [deployment](/concepts/deployments/) creates a flow run, it is submitted to a specific work pool for scheduling. A worker or agent running in the execution environment polls its respective work pool for new runs to execute.

> Each work pool has a default queue that all work will be sent to. Work queues are automatically created whenever they are referenced by either a deployment or an agent. For most applications, this automatic behavior will be sufficient to run flows as expected. For advanced needs, additional queues can be created to enable a greater degree of control over work delivery. See [work pool configuration](#work-pool-configuration) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each work pool has a default queue that all runs will be sent to. Work queues are automatically created whenever they are referenced by either a deployment or an agent. For most applications, this automatic behavior will be sufficient to run flows as expected. For advanced needs, additional queues can be created to enable a greater degree of control over work delivery. See [work pool configuration](#work-pool-configuration) for more information.
```

| Option | Description |
| ---- | --- |
| `--paused` | If provided, the work pool will be created in a paused state. |

> | `--type` | The type of worker that will be polling this work pool. [default: prefect-agent] |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `--type` | The type of infrastructure that can execute runs from this work pool. [default: prefect-agent] |
```

On success, the command returns the details of the newly created work pool, which can then be used to start agents that poll this pool for work or perform additional configuration of the pool.

#### Base Job Template

> Each work pool has a base job template that allows the customization of the behavior of the worker executing flow runs from the work pool. 

Reviewer 2: I view the base job template as a locked down API schema for how Prefect jobs get submitted to infrastructure; "customization" sounds too generic for what the feature is IMO.  Could you add a sentence or two or expand this one to describe briefly how the customization works?

Author: I added more details on how base job templates work, but it was more than one or two sentences. Let me know if it works or if I should pare it back a bit.

> Each worker type is configured with a default base job template, making it is easy to get started with a work pool. The default base template defines fields that can be defined either as defaults on the work pool or defined on a deployment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each worker type is configured with a default base job template, making it is easy to get started with a work pool. The default base template defines fields that can be edited on a per-deployment basis or for the entire work pool via the Prefect API and UI.
```

For example, if we create a `process` work pool via the CLI:

```bash

> $ prefect work-pool create --type process above-ground

Reviewer 2: 👏

Reviewer: 10/10 name.

I think we should add `--name` before `above-ground` just to make it more explicit.

Author: `name` is an argument and can't be defined with a flag as the CLI is currently implemented. I'll update the text above the command to clarify that `above-ground` is the name of the work pool.

```

We see these configuration options available in the Prefect UI:
![process work pool configuration options](../img/ui/process-work-pool-config.png)

> For a `process` work pool, we can configure the option to set environment variables for spawned processes, set the working directory to execute flows, and control whether or not the flow run output is streamed to workers' standard output.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For `process` work pool configured with defaults, we can configure the option to set environment variables for spawned processes, set the working directory to execute flows, and control whether or not the flow run output is streamed to workers' standard output.
```

You can override each of these attributes on a per-deployment basis. When deploying a project, you can specify these overrides in the `work_pool.job_variables` section of a `deployment.yaml`.

If we wanted to turn off streaming output for a specific deployment, we could add the following to our `deployment.yaml`:

```yaml
work_pool:
    name: above-ground  
    job_variables:
        stream_output: false
```

!!! tip "Advanced Customization of the Base Job Template"

>     For advanced use cases, users can fully customize the base job template of a work pool via the 'Advanced' tab in the work pool create and edit forms. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    For advanced use cases, users can create work pools with fully customizable job templates; this customization is available when creating or editing a work pool on the 'Advanced' tab within the UI.
```

>     Advanced customization is useful for worker types that can support a high degree of customization. For example, the `kubernetes` worker type allows users to specify a custom job template that can be used to configure the manifest that workers use to create jobs for flow execution. 

Reviewer 2: I think we can say more here - something like

Advanced customization in various scenarios: 

- 
- if there are 
```suggestion
    Advanced customization is useful anytime the underlying infrastructure supports a high degree of customization; in these scenarios a work pool job template allows you to expose a minimal and easy-to-digest set of options to deployment authors.  Additionally, these options are the _only_ customizable aspects for deployment infrastructure, which can be useful for restricting functionality in secure environments. For example, the `kubernetes` worker type allows users to specify a custom job template that can be used to configure the manifest that workers use to create jobs for flow execution. 
```

On success, the command returns the details of the newly created work pool, which can then be used to start agents that poll this pool for work or perform additional configuration of the pool.

#### Base Job Template

Each work pool has a base job template that allows the customization of the behavior of the worker executing flow runs from the work pool. 

The base job template acts as a contract defining the configuration passed to the worker for each flow run and the options available to deployment creators to customize worker behavior per deployment. 

A base job template comprises a `job_configuration` section and a `variables` section. 

The `variables` section defines the fields available to be customized per deployment. The `variables` section follows the [OpenAPI specification](https://swagger.io/specification/), which allows work pool creators to place limits on provided values (type, minimum, maximum, etc.). 

> The job configuration section defines how values provided for fields in the variables section should be translated to the configuration given to a worker when executing a flow run. The values in the `job_configuration` can use placeholders to reference values provided in the `variables` section. Placeholders are declared using double curly braces, e.g., `{{ variable_name }}`. `job_configuration` values can also be hard-coded if the value should not be customizable.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The job configuration section defines how values provided for fields in the variables section should be translated into the configuration given to a worker when executing a flow run. 

The values in the `job_configuration` can use placeholders to reference values provided in the `variables` section. Placeholders are declared using double curly braces, e.g., `{{ variable_name }}`. `job_configuration` values can also be hard-coded if the value should not be customizable.
```

Each worker type is configured with a default base job template, making it easy to start with a work pool. The default base template defines fields that can be edited on a per-deployment basis or for the entire work pool via the Prefect API and UI.

For example, if we create a `process` work pool via the CLI:

```bash
$ prefect work-pool create --type process above-ground
```

We see these configuration options available in the Prefect UI:
![process work pool configuration options](../img/ui/process-work-pool-config.png)

> For a `process` work pool with the default base job template, we can set environment variables for spawned processes, set the working directory to execute flows, and control whether or not the flow run output is streamed to workers' standard output. You can also see an example of JSON formatted base job template with the 'Advanced' tab.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For a `process` work pool with the default base job template, we can set environment variables for spawned processes, set the working directory to execute flows, and control whether the flow run output is streamed to workers' standard output. You can also see an example of JSON formatted base job template with the 'Advanced' tab.
```

You can override each of these attributes on a per-deployment basis. When deploying a project, you can specify these overrides in the `work_pool.job_variables` section of a `deployment.yaml`.

If we wanted to turn off streaming output for a specific deployment, we could add the following to our `deployment.yaml`:

```yaml
work_pool:
    name: above-ground  
    job_variables:
        stream_output: false
```

!!! tip "Advanced Customization of the Base Job Template"

>     For advanced use cases, users can create work pools with fully customizable job templates; this customization is available when creating or editing a work pool on the 'Advanced' tab within the UI.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    For advanced use cases, users can create work pools with fully customizable job templates. This customization is available when creating or editing a work pool on the 'Advanced' tab within the UI.
```

>     Advanced customization is useful anytime the underlying infrastructure supports a high degree of customization; in these scenarios a work pool job template allows you to expose a minimal and easy-to-digest set of options to deployment authors.  Additionally, these options are the _only_ customizable aspects for deployment infrastructure, which can be useful for restricting functionality in secure environments. For example, the `kubernetes` worker type allows users to specify a custom job template that can be used to configure the manifest that workers use to create jobs for flow execution. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Advanced customization is useful anytime the underlying infrastructure supports a high degree of customization. In these scenarios a work pool job template allows you to expose a minimal and easy-to-digest set of options to deployment authors.  Additionally, these options are the _only_ customizable aspects for deployment infrastructure, which can be useful for restricting functionality in secure environments. For example, the `kubernetes` worker type allows users to specify a custom job template that can be used to configure the manifest that workers use to create jobs for flow execution. 
```

Each work pool has a base job template that allows the customization of the behavior of the worker executing flow runs from the work pool. 

> Each worker type is configured with a default base job template, making it is easy to get started with a work pool. The default base template defines fields that can be edited on a per-deployment basis or for the entire work pool via the Prefect API and UI.

Reviewer 2: removes a word
```suggestion
Each worker type is configured with a default base job template, making it easy to get started with a work pool. The default base template defines fields that can be edited on a per-deployment basis or for the entire work pool via the Prefect API and UI.
```

### Local debugging
As long as your deployment's infrastructure block supports it, you can use work pools to temporarily send runs to an agent running on your local machine for debugging by running `prefect agent start -p my-local-machine` and updating the deployment's work pool to `my-local-machine`.

## Worker Overview <span class="badge beta"></span>
!!! warning "Workers are a beta feature"
    Workers are a beta feature and are subject to change in future releases.

> Workers are lightweight polling services that retrieve scheduled work from a work pool and execute the corresponding flow runs. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Workers are lightweight polling services that retrieve scheduled runs from a work pool and execute them.
```

> Workers are similar to agents, but offer greater configuration options and the ability to route work to specific execution environments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Workers are similar to agents, but offer better control over infrastructure configuration and the ability to route work to specific types of execution environments.
```

Workers each have a type corresponding to the execution environment to which they will submit flow runs. Workers are only able to join work pools that match their type. As a result, when deployments are assigned to a work pool, you know in which execution environment scheduled flow runs for that deployment will be scheduled.

### Worker Options

> Workers poll for work from one or more queues within a work pool. If the worker references a work queue that doesn't exist, it will be created automatically. The worker CLI is able to infer the worker type from the work pool, but you can also specify the worker type explicitly. If you supply the worker type to the worker CLI, a work pool will be created automatically if it doesn't exist.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Workers poll for work from one or more queues within a work pool. If the worker references a work queue that doesn't exist, it will be created automatically. The worker CLI is able to infer the worker type from the work pool, but you can also specify the worker type explicitly. If you supply the worker type to the worker CLI, a work pool will be created automatically if it doesn't exist (using default job settings).
```

### Local debugging
As long as your deployment's infrastructure block supports it, you can use work pools to temporarily send runs to an agent running on your local machine for debugging by running `prefect agent start -p my-local-machine` and updating the deployment's work pool to `my-local-machine`.

## Worker Overview <span class="badge beta"></span>
!!! warning "Workers are a beta feature"
    Workers are a beta feature and are subject to change in future releases.

Workers are lightweight polling services that retrieve scheduled runs from a work pool and execute them.

> Workers are similar to agents, but offer better control over infrastructure configuration and the ability to route work to specific types of execution environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Workers are similar to agents, but offer greater control over infrastructure configuration and the ability to route work to specific types of execution environments.
```

> Workers each have a type corresponding to the execution environment to which they will submit flow runs. Workers are only able to join work pools that match their type. As a result, when deployments are assigned to a work pool, you know in which execution environment scheduled flow runs for that deployment will be scheduled.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Workers each have a type corresponding to the execution environment to which they will submit flow runs. Workers are only able to join work pools that match their type. As a result, when deployments are assigned to a work pool, you know in which execution environment scheduled flow runs for that deployment will run.
```

Reviewer: +1

### Worker Options

> Workers poll for work from one or more queues within a work pool. If the worker references a work queue that doesn't exist, it will be created automatically. The worker CLI is able to infer the worker type from the work pool, but you can also specify the worker type explicitly. If you supply the worker type to the worker CLI, a work pool will be created automatically if it doesn't exist (using default job settings).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Workers poll for work from one or more queues within a work pool. If the worker references a work queue that doesn't exist, it will be created automatically. The worker CLI is able to infer the worker type from the work pool. Alternatively, you can also specify the worker type explicitly. If you supply the worker type to the worker CLI, a work pool will be created automatically if it doesn't exist (using default job settings).
```

Reviewer: +1
